1 .     -                        for current directory
2 ..    -                        parent directory
3 linux command --help     -     for more information about any other commands.

4 ls      -       List information about the FILEs (the current directory by default).ls is a Linux shell command that lists directory
                  contents of files and directories.
  ls path -       for showing list of specific directory.
  ls -a   -       list all files including hidden file starting with '.'
  ls -l   -       list with long format - show permissions.
  ls -lh  -       list long format with readable file size
  ls -lah

5 sudo    -       execute a command as another user(by default, as the superuser) It prompts you for your personal password and confirms
                  your request to execute a command by checking a file, called sudoers.
  ex: sudo ls
6 su    -         The su command allows you to become another user. The su command is used to become another user during a login session.
                  Invoked without a username, su defaults to becoming the superuser. Additional arguments may be provided after the username,
                  in which case they are supplied to the user's login shell. In particular, an argument of -c will cause the next argument to
                  be treated as a command by most command interpreters. The command will be executed by the shell specified in /etc/passwd for
                  the target user.
  ex: su user -c command

7 sudoers    -   The sudoers file located at: /etc/sudoers, contains the rules that users must follow when using the sudo command.
                 To open this file use sudo visudo. It open file in vi editor.

8 Home/root  -   The /root directory is the home directory of the root account. It is also referred to as the root user's home directory
                 (and not as the root directory).
                 A home directory, also called a login directory, is a directory on a Unix-like operating system that serves as the repository
                 for a user's personal files (including configuration files), directories and programs. It is also the directory that a user
                 is first in after logging into the system.
  ex: /  -   for root's home directory 
  ex: ~  -   for user's home directory

9 Mkdir       -  make directories

10 man        -  man command in Linux is used to display the user manual of any command that we can run on the terminal. 

11               shell It is not a command. a shell is a user interface for access to an operating system's services. In general,
                 operating system shells use either a command-line interface (CLI) or graphical user interface (GUI), depending on a
                 computer's role and particular operation. It is named a shell because it is the outermost layer around the operating system
                 kernel.
12 ssh        -  ssh stands for “Secure Shell”. It is a protocol used to securely connect to a remote server/system. ssh is secure in the
                 sense that it transfers the data in encrypted form between the host and the client. It transfers inputs from the client to
                 the host and relays back the output. ssh runs at TCP/IP port 22.

   syntax: ssh user_name@host(IP/Domain_name)

             host - refers to the machine which can be a computer or a router that is being accessed.
                    It can be an IP address (e.g. 192.168.1.24) or domain name(e.g. www.domainname.com).
 
                 Using a public-private key pair or SSH key pair to login into the remote host is more secure as compared to using passwords.

    For generating public-private keys use the command:
      ssh-keygen

   The private key must remain hidden while the public key must be copied to the remote host.
   After copying the public key to the remote host the connection will be established using SSH keys and not the password.

   to generate keys first create .ssh file in user home directory
   It genearte two files id_rsa(private file) and id_rsa.pub(public file)
   ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "your_email@example.com"

  ssh-keygen will generate an RSA key for use in SSH protocol 2 connections

  Public key authentication works like this:

    1. Generate a key pair.
    2. Give someone (or a server) the public key.
    3. Later, anytime you want to authenticate, the person (or the server) asks you to prove you have the private key that corresponds
       to the public key.
    4. You prove you have the private key.
then communication start

13 PEM file   -     PEM or Privacy Enhanced Mail is a Base64 encoded DER certificate.
                    PEM certificates are frequently used for web servers as they can easily be translated into readable data using a simple
                    text editor.  Generally when a PEM encoded file is opened in a text editor, it contains very distinct headers and footers.
   pem file extension is .pem. Defined in RFCs 1421. 
   Pem file include
     1 Private Key
     2 Server Certificate (crt, puplic key)
     3 (optional) Intermediate CA and/or bundles if signed by a 3rd party.

  How to Connect to Amazon EC2 Remotely Using SSH:

   1 Download the .pem file.
   2 In Amazon Dashboard choose "Instances" from the left side bar, and then select the instance you would like to connect to.
   3 Click on "Actions", then select "Connect"
   4 Click on "Connect with a Standalone SSH Client"
   5 Open up a Terminal window
   6 Create a directory:

   7 # mkdir -p ~/.ssh
     Move the downloaded .pem file to the .ssh directory we just created:

   8 # mv ~/Downloads/ec2private.pem ~/.ssh
     Change the permissions of the .pem file so only the root user can read it:

   9 # chmod 400 ~/.ssh/ec2private.pem
      Create a config file:

   10 # vim ~/.ssh/config
     Enter the following text into that config file:

      Host *amazonaws.com
      IdentityFile ~/.ssh/ec2private.pem
     User ec2-user
    Save that file.

   11 Use the ssh command with your public DNS hostname to connect to your instance.
     e.g.:

    # ssh ec2-54-23-23-23-34.example.amazonaws.com

   For connection with AWS
   ssh -i ~/ec2.pem ubuntu@12.34.56.78
